# Kubernetes
- Kubernetes is a tool that is used to manage our containers. 
- It helps us to provide highly scalable, highly available application.
- Suppose we have a huge application, which has 100's of services each deployed in a container. So, Kubernetes manages all  the containers, like its environment variables, connected databases, different services might be conntected to different tools like - Kafka, redis. 
- It keeps in management, scaling and automating software deployment.

# Kubernetes Architecture
* Kubernetes Architecture involves two things
    - Master Nodes
    - Worker Nodes
* We can have multiple master nodes, but there should be atleast one Master Nodes.
    - Each master Nodes manages N number of Worker Nodes.
    - Basically, Worker nodes follow the instructions of Master Nodes. 
* Inside Worker nodes we deploy our POD(one or more)
* Each POD can have one container or more containers based on the architecture.
* POD: POD is the smallest unit of K8s cluster
* Ideally we keep one container inside one POD. 
* Along with the POD, We have KUBELET - It make sures that all the worker nodes are following the master nodes instructions.

* Master Nodes components:
    - API Server: API Server is the front end for kubernetes control panel. Basically kubernetes will be managed through this API Server only. Like creating a POD, checking logs etc. It can be accessed through:
        > UI 
        > API
        > CLI
    - Control Manager (c-m): Keeps tracks of what is happening in K8s clusters. It controls the Nodes Controllers, Replication Controller like, how many replica needed for any application or container.
    - Scheduler (sched): Manages the POO placements into worker Nodes based on the resources.
    - etcd Server: It is a key-value store, which keeps all the data for K8s cluster. So, that whenever something's happens to Master nodes, another nodes can take up the task of Master nodes and starts acting as an Master.

## Kubernetes Components in K8S cluster
* Let's say we have a Worker node having two PODS, App POD and DB POD. Each having its own unique IP address
    - There are chances that App POD can get killed/destroyed due to certain reason, In that case a new POD gets created    with a new IP address.
    - So, this mapping of PODS IP address to its dependent services is managed by Internal Services Component or External Services Component. - In case DB-POD gets killed in that case INTERNAL SERVICE management is triggered to maintain the mapping of new IP address.
* Internal Service Component (svc): It uses to manage the mapping of PODs(dynamic IP address) within the K8S cluster
* External Service Component: It is used to manage the mapping of PODS from external services outside the K8s cluster. For this we have INGRESS components. Config Map Component: As, POD gets destroyed as soon as it encounter any issue within it and a new POD gets created.
    - So, for that reason we have separate config-map components which has all the configuration needed for running an POD.
    - So, all the configuration is externalised and can be used within the K8s cluster.
* Secret Component: It is used to store the sensitive data in base64 encoded format. 
* Volume: DB PODs are attached to either local Volume or external volume (outside cluster). So, that even if POD gets destroyed then new POD will gets data from external Volume. This Volume keeps the sync of data with the POD.
* Replica: we keep replica of worker node. So that, POD should be accessible even after it is destroyed from another worker node. Since, it takes time for another POD to startup again.

## Deployment
- In deployment, we define all the containers that needs to be created. 
- The replica of containers

## Installation
- minikube (application): It allows us to create the local kubernetes cluster in our local environment. In this cluster only we can use kubectl commands. 
- kubectl (kubernetes controller): It allows us to interact us with the Kubernetes API Server.