## Application Configurations
* We need to write the yaml configuration for all our services.
* With the help of Kubernetes plugin, writing yaml config is exteremly easy.
* We can have multiple yaml files, means same yaml file will have Deployment as well as Services. Only we need to seperate them with ---

## Service-registry Configuration
* As, our service registry is eureka server and it contains the state of other applications. So, it will be StatefulSet
* StatefulSet is just like Deployment file only and it contains the state of applications.
* Also, We need to define Headless service(by adding clusterIP: None)
    - Headless services refer to a type of service in cloud-native architectures, especially in Kubernetes, that allows for the direct communication between individual  pods without the need for a centralized load balancer or proxy. In a headless service, you define the service without a cluster IP, which means that DNS queries will return the individual pod IPs rather than a single IP address.

## config-server Configuration
* We need to define the Deployment (.yaml) file 
* And Service with spec: selector: (Name of the pod)
* Also, we have the environmnet variables name in this service.
* So, we need to define the configMap.
* eureka_service_address: "http://eureka-0.eureka:8761/eureka"
    - eureka-0 is the serviceName from StatefulSet and .eureka is the metadata name from Service and /eureka is the path

## MySQL Configurations
* As this application will store the state of the application, So will create StatefulSet with the headless-service and a volume along with it
* It will contain:
    - PV
    - PVC
    - StatefulSet
    - Headless Service
    - Config
* Once all the yaml configuration is defined we need to run the script:
    - To create our database like paymentdb, productdb, whatsoever we are using.
    - Purpose is when we are starting our mysql container, we want to create all the databases if its not present
    - So, we create an script and attach it in our Volume of .yaml configuration
