## Deployment and Service yaml configuration
* All the yaml file have 4 activities
    - API VERSION of our kubernetes cluster
    - What KIND of resources we are going to use. eg.: Deployment, Services etc.
    - SPECIFICATION: Like the Container, Images and environment variables of the resources
        - STATUS
            > Specification will be different for different resources like deployment, services etc
            > matchLabels: Everything in kubernetes cluster works with label. Based on the label different resources will get attached together
            > template: Template describes the pods that will be created
            > selector:
                matchLabels:
                    app: service-registry
            Above code is for deployment file we created

* In VS Code, we have kubernetes plugin. Which gives the descriptions of the yaml configurations

* svc.yaml:
    - There are chances that App POD can get killed/destroyed due to certain reason, In that case a new POD gets created with a new IP address.
    - So, this mapping of PODS IP address to its dependent services is managed by: Services component using svc.yaml file.

* Port 80 is the default port. It's what gets used when no port is specified 
* Port 443 is also same, but it is used in HTTPS and Port 80 is used in HTTP

* To execute/apply the yaml file we use
    > kubectl apply -f <file-name>

    - ex: kubectl apply f\deploy.yaml, kubectl apply f.\svc.yaml
    - It will add all the pods, deployment, services and replicaset based on the configuration we added in our yaml file.

    - We can check using kubectl get all
    - kind: Deployment, will create pod and deployment
    - kind: Service, will create service

* To delete the component that all got created via the yaml config:
    - kubectl delete -f .\deploy.yaml
    - kubectl delete -f .\svc.yaml