## Docker Compose
- Docker Compose is a way to manage N number of docker images using an yaml file.
- We can write a single yaml file to run our all our docker images with its respective environment variables.
- Docker creates a virtual network called bridge by default, and connects your containers to it
    * CONS
        > We can use external network also, but it is tedious.
        > Also, scalling of the containers is diffecult
        > Docker run and docker-compose won't re-create containers that failed a built-in health check.
        > Docker Compose fails to prove itself on rebootable
-  Docker compose only helps in running the images with respective environment variables.
   For creating iamges we need to use - docker build as we were doing earlier.

## depends_on
- Inside yaml : We can pass the service to which current service is dependend on. 
- Example:
    > depends_on:
        - serviceregistry
- So, that it will start, only once serviceregistry container is running
- As, all containers in docker runs on : host.docker.internal , then for environment variables we can pass the serviceName instead of 'host.docker.internal'

## Health Check
- We can add health checks for an service in docker compose.
- With this we can, make wait a service for another service to get started via checking the actuator/health endpoint 
- arrtriutes to add health-check= healthcheck: test: [] 
- Check for any prerequisite service is up or not:
    depends_on:
        configserver:
            condition: service_healthy

## To run a docker-compose
* docker-compose -f <file-name LIKE docker-compose.yml> up -d
    > Creates/Starts all the containers in serial order
* docker-compose -f <file-name LIKE docker-compose.yml> down -d
    > Deletes all the containers in reverse serial order
* -f = filename, -d = In detached mode, up = Up all the services